ADD TO INTRO 
Another reason is that I want to avoid a repeat of a [Jeremy Bentham episode](#Jeremy-bentham).

[Doing good](#doing-good)
  1. [Effective altruism](#effective-altruism)
    1. [Weird EA](#weird-EA)
    2. [Jeremy Bentham's thinking was inseparably batshit and shockingly ahead of his time], because principled axiomatic thinking 
[Erisology and thinking less wrongly](#Erisology-and-thinking-less-wrongly)  (CHANGE!!!)
[Business, finance, entrepreneurship, management](#business-finance-entrepreneurship-management)
  1. [Consulting](#consulting)
    1. [Consulting's value-add](#consultings-value-add)
  2. [Management](#Management)
    1. [Business success measures](#Business-success-measures)
    2. [Dealing with message distortion](#Dealing-with-message-distortion)
    2. [High organizational standards](#high-standards)
    2. [Leadership principles](#Leadership-principles)
    2. [Resisting organizational stasis, or, it is always Day 1](#always-day-1): obsess over customers, resist managing by proxy, disagree and commit, embrace external trends *(KIV for content list refactoring)*
  2. [Venture capital](#venture-capital)
    1. [Typical route to becoming a VC](#Typical-route-to-becoming-VC)
  3. [Insurance](#Insurance)
    1. [The main function of the insurance sector in an economy](#Main-function-of-insurance-sector-in-economy)
[Donald Trump](#donald-trump) as autistic child with real estate development special interest 
[Jeremy Bentham](#Jeremy-bentham)'s thinking was inseparably (1) batshit, (2) shockingly ahead of his time

(JEFF BEZOS)
Eugene Wei, whose blog [Remains of the Day](https://www.eugenewei.com/) is just great in general, has a post called [Compress to impress](https://www.eugenewei.com/blog/2017/5/11/jpeg-your-ideas) (URL: "JPEG your ideas") that pithily captures and expounds on a bunch of stuff I've vaguely thought about and seen elsewhere. I covered the quotables [here](#Dealing-with-message-distortion); this is just about Jeff himself. 

Eugene:

```markdown
Jeff understood the power of rhetoric. Time spent coming up with the right words to package 
a key concept in a memorable way was time well spent. People fret about what others say about
them when they're not in the room, but Jeff was solving the issue of getting people to say 
what he'd say when he wasn't in the room.

It was so important to him that we even had company-wide contests to come up with the most 
memorable ways to name our annual themes. ...

I have a list of dozens of Jeff sayings filed away in memory, and I'm not alone. It's one 
reason he's one of the world's most effective CEO's. What's particularly impressive is that
Jeff is so brilliant that it would be easy for him to state his thinking in complex ways that
us mere mortals wouldn't grok. But true genius is stating the complex simply.

Ironically, Jeff employs the reverse of this for his own information inflows. It's well known
that he banned Powerpoint at Amazon because he was increasingly frustrated at the lossy nature
that medium. As Edward Tufte has long railed against, Powerpoint encourage people to reduce 
their thinking to a series of bullet points. Whenever someone would stand up in front of Jeff
to present, Jeff would have rifled through to the end of the presentation before they would've 
finished a handful of slides, and Jeff would just jump in and start asking questions about 
slide 35 when someone was still talking to slide 3.

As a hyper intelligent person, Jeff didn't want lossy compression or lazy thinking, he wanted
the raw feed in a structured form, and so we all shifted to writing our arguments out as essays
that he'd read silently in meetings. Written language is a lossy format, too, but it has the 
advantage of being less forgiving of broken logic flows than slide decks.

To summarize, Jeff's outbound feedback was carefully encoded and compressed for maximum fidelity
of transmission across hundreds of thousands of employees all over the world, but his inbound 
data feed was raw and minimally compressed. In structure, this pattern resembles what a great 
designer or photographer does. Find the most elegant and stable output from a complex universe 
of inputs.
```

This agrees with Steve Yegge's funny quotes above.

------------------------------
<a name="#Doing-good"></a>
## Doing good
([overview](#overview))

<a name="#Effective-altruism"></a>
### Effective altruism
([overview](#overview))

<a name="#Weird-EA"></a>
### Weird EA
([overview](#overview))

The subheading for this section makes it sound like I'm making fun of the weirder parts of EA. Rest assured I'm not -- I am weird myself, and have always loved and sought out the weird. (That's what pretty much half this document *is*.)

The following are from Scott Alexander's [Fear and Loathing at EA Global 2017](https://slatestarcodex.com/2017/08/16/fear-and-loathing-at-effective-altruism-global-2017/), one of the more moving posts on EA he's written (and he's written a lot on this). 

Context:

```markdown
Effective altruism is the movement devoted to finding the highest-impact ways to help 
other people and the world. Philosopher William MacAskill described it as “doing for 
the pursuit of good what the Scientific Revolution did for the pursuit of truth”. They 
have an annual global conference to touch base and discuss strategy. This year it was 
in the Palace of Fine Arts in San Francisco, and I got a chance to check it out.

The official conference theme was “Doing Good Together”. The official conference 
interaction style was “earnest”. The official conference effectiveness level was “very”.
And it was impossible to walk away from some of the talks without being impressed. ...

The whole conference was flawlessly managed, from laser-fast registration to polished-
sounding speakers to friendly unobtrusive reminders to use the seventeen different apps
that would keep track of your conference-related affairs for you. And the of course the
venue, which really was amazing.
```

The "underbelly of the movement", where the weird stuff is:

```markdown
But walk a little bit outside of the perfectly-scheduled talks, or linger in the common
areas a little bit after the colorfully-arranged vegetarian lunches, and you run into the
shadow side of all of this, the hidden underbelly of the movement.

William MacAskill wanted a “scientific revolution in doing good”. But the Scientific
Revolution progressed from “I wonder why apples fall down” to “huh, every particle is in
an infinite number of places simultaneously, and also cats can be dead and alive at the 
same time”. The effective altruists’ revolution started with “I wonder if some charities
work better than others”. But even at this early stage, it’s gotten to some pretty weird
places.

I got to talk to some people from Wild Animal Suffering Research. They start with the 
standard EA animal rights argument – if you think animals have moral relevance, you can 
save zillions of them for almost no cost. A campaign for cage-free eggs, minimal in the 
grand scheme of things, got most major corporations to change their policies and gave two
hundred million chickens an improved quality of life. But WASR points out that even this
isn’t the most neglected cause. There are up to a trillion reptiles, ten quintillion
insects, and maybe a sextillion zooplankton. And as nasty as factory farms are, life in the
state of nature is nasty, brutish, short, and prone to having parasitic wasps paralyze you
so that their larvae can eat your organs from the inside out while you are still alive. 
WASR researches ways we can alleviate wild animal suffering, from euthanizing elderly 
elephants (probably not high-impact) to using more humane insecticides (recommended as an 
‘interim solution’) to neutralizing predator species in order to relieve the suffering of
prey (still has some thorny issues that need to be resolved).

Wild Animal Suffering Research was nowhere near the weirdest people at Effective Altruism
Global.

I got to talk to people from the Qualia Research Institute, who point out that everyone 
else is missing something big: the hedonic treadmill. People have a certain baseline 
amount of happiness. Fix their problems, and they’ll be happy for a while, then go back to 
baseline. The only solution is to hack consciousness directly, to figure out what exactly
happiness is – unpack what we’re looking for when we describe some mental states as having 
higher positive valence than others – and then add that on to every other mental state
directly. This isn’t quite the dreaded wireheading, the widely-feared technology that will
make everyone so doped up on techno-super-heroin (or direct electrical stimulation of the 
brain’s pleasure centers) that they never do anything else. It’s a rewiring of the brain
that creates a “perpetual but varied bliss” that “reengineers the network of transition 
probabilities between emotions” while retaining the capability to do economically useful 
work. Partly this last criteria is to prevent society from collapsing, but the ultimate
goal is:

    …the possibility of a full-fledged qualia economy: when people have spare
    resources and are interested in new states of consciousness, anyone good at
    mining the state-space for precious gems will have an economic advantage. In 
    principle the whole economy may eventually be entirely based on exploring the 
    state-space of consciousness and trading information about the most valuable
    contents discovered doing so.

The Qualia Research Institute was nowhere near the weirdest people at Effective Altruism 
Global.

I got to talk to some people from the Foundational Research Institute. They do a lot of 
research, and a lot of it is very good, but they’re most infamous within the community for
their particle work. It goes like this: the universe is really really big. So if suffering 
made up an important part of the structure of the universe, this would be so tremendously 
outrageously unconscionably bad that we can’t even conceive of how bad it could be. So the
most important cause might be to worry about whether fundamental physical particles are 
capable of suffering – and, if so, how to destroy physics. From their writeup:

    Speculative scenarios to change the long-run future of physics may dominate any
    concrete work to affect the welfare of intelligent computations — at least within 
    the fraction of our brain’s moral parliament that cares about fundamental physics. 
    The main value (or disvalue) of intelligence would be to explore physics further 
    and seek out tricks by which its long-term character could be transformed. 
    
    For instance, if false-vacuum decay did look beneficial with respect to reducing
    suffering in physics, civilization could wait until its lifetime was almost over 
    anyway (letting those who want to create lots of happy and meaningful intelligent 
    beings run their eudaimonic computations) and then try to ignite a false-vacuum 
    decay for the benefit of the remainder of the universe (assuming this wouldn’t 
    impinge on distant aliens whose time wasn’t yet up). Triggering such a decay might
    require extremely high-energy collisions — presumably more than a million times 
    those found in current particle accelerators — but it might be possible. On the 
    other hand, such decay may happen on its own within billions of years, suggesting
    little benefit to starting early relative to the cosmic scales at stake. 
    
    In any case, I’m not suggesting vacuum decay as the solution — just that there may be 
    many opportunities like it waiting to be found, and that these possibilities may
    dwarf anything else that happens with intelligent life.
```

Scott subscribes to the Lovecraftian "it was not meant that we should voyage far" from our "placid island of ignorance in the midst of black seas of infinity":

```markdown
We live on a placid island of ignorance in the midst of black seas of infinity, 
and it was not meant that we should voyage far. The sciences, each straining in 
its own direction, have hitherto harmed us little; but some day the piecing 
together of dissociated knowledge will open up such terrifying vistas of reality, 
and of our frightful position therein, that we shall either go mad from the 
revelation or flee from the deadly light into the peace and safety of a new dark age.
```

Scott adds:

```markdown
Morality wasn’t supposed to be like this. Most of the effective altruists I met were 
nonrealist utilitarians. They don’t believe in some objective moral law imposed by an 
outside Power. They just think that we should pursue our own human-parochial moral values
effectively. If there was ever a recipe for a safe and milquetoast ethical system, that
should be it. And yet once you start thinking about what morality is – really thinking,
the kind where you try to use mathematical models and formal logic – it opens up into 
these dark eldritch vistas of infinities and contradictions. The effective altruists
started out wanting to do good. And they did: whole nine-digit-sums worth of good,
spreadsheets full of lives saved and diseases cured and disasters averted. But if you 
really want to understand what you’re doing – get past the point where you can catch 
falling apples, to the point where you have a complete theory of gravitation – you end 
up with something as remote from normal human tenderheartedness as the conference lunches
were from normal human food.
```

And this is the money quote that made me start this section in the first place, because it touched me deeply (perhaps part of it is simply Scott's rhetoric working on me?):

```markdown
But I worry I’m painting a misleading picture here. It isn’t that effective altruism is
divided into two types of people: the boring effective suits, and the wacky explorers of
bizarre ethical theories. I mean, there’s always going to be *some* division. But by and 
large these were the same people, or at least you couldn’t predict who was who. They 
would go up and give a talk about curing river blindness in Nigeria, and then you’d catch 
them later and learn that they were worried that maybe the most effective thing was 
preventing synthetic biology from taking over the ecosystem. Or you would hear someone 
give their screed, think “what a weirdo”, and then learn they were a Harvard professor who 
served on a bunch of Fortune 500 company boards. Maybe the right analogy would be physics.
A lot of physicists work on practical things like solar panels and rechargeable batteries.
A tiny minority work on stranger things like wormholes and alternate universes. But it’s 
not like these are two different factions in physics that hate each other. And every so 
often a solar panel engineer might look into the math behind alternate universes, or a
wormhole theorist might have opinions on battery design. They’re doing really different 
stuff, but it’s within the same tradition.

The movement’s unofficial leader is William MacAskill. He’s a pretty typical overachiever
– became an Oxford philosophy professor at age 28 (!), founded three successful non-profits,
and goes around hobnobbing with rich people trying to get them to donate money (he himself
has pledged to give away everything he earns above $36,000). I had always assumed he was 
just a random dignified suit-wearing person who was slightly exasperated at having to put 
up with the rest of the movement. But I got a chance to talk to him – just for a few minutes,
before he had to run off and achieve something – and I was shocked at how much he knew about
all the weirdest aspects of the community, and how protective he felt of them. And in his 
closing speech, he urged the attendees to “keep EA weird”, giving examples of times when 
seemingly bizarre ideas won out and became accepted by the mainstream.

If it were just the senior research analysts at their spreadsheets, we could dismiss them as
the usual Ivy League lizard people and move on. If it were just the fringes ranting about 
cyber-neuro-metaphilosophy, we could dismiss them as loonies and forget about it. And if it 
were just the two groups, separate and doing their own thing, we could end National Geographic-
style, intoning in our best David Attenborough voice that “Effective Altruism truly is a land
of contrasts”. But it’s more than that. Some animating spirit gives rise to the whole thing, 
some unifying aesthetic that can switch to either pole and back again on a whim. After a lot
of thought, I have only one guess about what it might be.

I think the effective altruists are genuinely good people.

Over lunch, a friend told me about his meeting with an EA philosopher who hadn’t been able 
to make it to the conference. This friend had met the philosopher, and as they were walking,
the philosopher had stopped to pick up worms writhing on the sidewalk and put them back in 
the moist dirt.

And this story struck me, because I had taken a walk with one of the speakers earlier, and 
seen her do the same thing. She had been apologetic, said she knew it was a waste of her 
time and mine. She’d wondered if it was pathological, whether maybe she needed to be checked
for obsessive compulsive disorder. But when I asked her whether she wanted to stop doing it,
she’d thought about it a little, and then – finally – saved the worm.

And there was a story about the late great moral philosopher Derek Parfit, himself a member
of the effective altruist movement. This is from Larissa MacFarquhar:

    As for his various eccentricities, I don’t think they add anything to an understanding 
    of his philosophy, but I find him very moving as a person. When I was interviewing him 
    for the first time, for instance, we were in the middle of a conversation and suddenly 
    he burst into tears. It was completely unexpected, because we were not talking about 
    anything emotional or personal, as I would define those things. I was quite startled, 
    and as he cried I sat there rewinding our conversation in my head, trying to figure out
    what had upset him. Later, I asked him about it. It turned out that what had made him 
    cry was the idea of suffering. We had been talking about suffering in the abstract. I 
    found that very striking.

    Now, I don’t think any professional philosopher is going to make this mistake, but 
    nonprofessionals might think that utilitarianism, for instance (Parfit is a utilitarian),
    or certain other philosophical ways of think about morality, are quite unemotional, 
    quite calculating, quite cold; and so because as I am writing mostly for nonphilosophers,
    it seemed like a good corrective to know that for someone like Parfit these issues are 
    extremely emotional, even in the abstract.

    The weird thing was that the same thing happened again with a philosophy graduate student
    whom I was interviewing some months later. Now you’re going to start thinking it’s me, 
    but I was interviewing a philosophy graduate student who, like Parfit, had a very
    unemotional demeanor; we started talking about suffering in the abstract, and he burst 
    into tears. I don’t quite know what to make of all this but I do think that insofar as 
    one is interested in the relationship of ideas to people who think about them, and not 
    just in the ideas themselves, those small events are moving and important.
    
I imagine some of those effective altruists, picking up worms, and I can see them here too. 
I can see them sitting down and crying at the idea of suffering, at allowing it to exist.

Larissa MacFarquhar says she doesn’t know what to make of this. I think I sort of do. I’m not
much of an effective altruist – at least, I’ve managed to evade the 80,000 Hours coaches long
enough to stay in medicine. But every so often, I can see the world as they have to. Where 
the very existence of suffering, any suffering at all, is an immense cosmic wrongness, an 
intolerable gash in the world, distressing and enraging. Where a single human lifetime seems
frighteningly inadequate compared to the magnitude of the problem. Where all the normal 
interpersonal squabbles look trivial in the face of a colossal war against suffering itself, 
one that requires a soldier’s discipline and a general’s eye for strategy.

All of these Effecting Effective Effectiveness people don’t obsess over efficiency out of 
bloodlessness. They obsess because the struggle is so desperate, and the resources so few. 
Their efficiency is military efficiency. Their cooperation is military discipline. Their unity 
is the unity of people facing a common enemy. And they are winning. Very slowly, WWI trench-
warfare-style. But they really are.
```


-----------------------------
(UNDER ROBIN HANSON)
Robin may well be [the Bentham of our time](#jeremy-bentham).

(UNDER AMAZING PEOPLE)
<a name="#Jeremy-bentham"></a>
### Jeremy Bentham
([overview](#overview))

I found [this FB post by Rikk Hill](https://www.facebook.com/rikkhill/posts/10155063688827423) entirely at random, made the *very* lucky step of saving it all in a Word doc somewhere within the bowels of my laptop, and then forgot nearly everything about it except the strong sense that Jeremy Bentham was important to utilitarianism and weird EA because of his thinking style. I forgot *so much* about it that I couldn't find it back after concerted searching, all my search terms being wrong; in fact, it was only today that I realized I even had the Word doc, from which I could later retrieve the original source. That was a deeply frustrating experience. Not all of these experiences have a similarly happy ending; indeed this was an exception. This class of experiences is in fact one of *the* main drivers behind the existence of this entire sprawling document. 

But I digress. Anyway:

It was really, deeply important that Jeremy Bentham's thinking was weird, as a side effect of being utterly, undeviatingly principled; in that sense he was the first weird EAist, decades and centuries ahead of his time. (For more on weird EA see [here](#weird-EA)). Also, rereading Rikk's post made me think of [Scott on Robin Hanson](#robin-hanson). Robin may well be the Bentham of our time. 

Last point before we dive in: Bentham, like Hanson, and like myself (except for the part where I don't have any intellectual output), is an inveterate [sequence thinker](https://blog.givewell.org/2014/06/10/sequence-thinking-vs-cluster-thinking/); most people are cluster thinkers, and there is a lot of value in that as well (chiefly sandboxing weird conclusions from dominating via calculations).

Here's Rikk's post in full.

```markdown
I’d like to talk a little bit about moral philosopher Jeremy Bentham, and why he has a weird level of celebrity status among people who think like I do.

Jeremy Bentham lived in the late 18th and early 19th Centuries, in what we think of as the 
mid-late Georgian era. That’s important. This is the period in which Jane Austen wrote all 
her novels. The global policy issue of the era was motivating the abolition of the 
international slave trade. 3% of the population of England and Wales had the right to vote. 
Over this period, the Industrial and Agricultural revolutions in Britain mean that instead 
of 45% of the labour force working in agriculture, a mere 22% of the labour force was
required for feeding the nation. At the time, using just under a quarter of your working
population to produce enough food was seen as nothing short of a miracle. Today, this number
is less than 1%.

He lived in a very different time, is what I’m saying. I can’t stress this enough. It’s 
desperately important to remember this when thinking about Jeremy Bentham, because his 
intellectual output is principally characterised by being 

(a) utterly batshit, and 
(b) shockingly, eerily, uncannily ahead of its time.

Let’s deal with the batshit stuff first. Jeremy Bentham was a wildly eccentric dude, perhaps
best demonstrated by the fact that I used to walk past his corpse every day. It sits in a 
glass case in University College London. He instructed that after his death, his body should
be dissected for medical science, and afterwards, his taxidermied corpse should be put on 
display. He called this an “auto-icon”; why build a statue to someone when you can just 
exhibit their body? If you’re around Fitzrovia on a weekday, you can pop in and see it.

He thought the social mores and taboos of his time were arbitrary or unhelpful or outright 
wrong, and the social mores and taboos around death and the dead were just one example of this.
In later life, he became fixated on the role of bodies after death, and suggested decorating
public spaces with mummified corpses instead of trees. He also shared his bed with the pig he
kept as a house pet, pioneered a form of jogging (which he called “ante-prandial 
circumgyration”), and maintained largely-unsolicited correspondence with different heads of 
state from all over the world on the subjects of legal and constitutional reform.

Some of this is to be expected. If you reject the norms of your time and try to re-derive the 
social order from first principles, you might end up spooning a pig and writing to the President
of the United States about codifying the common law. What you might *also* end up doing is
independently inventing much of 21st Century Western liberalism, which is what Bentham also did.

There is a sense in which Jeremy Bentham literally invented a lot of the concepts we take for
granted as the founder of utilitarianism and a prolific Enlightenment thinker, but there is 
another sense in which, almost as a side-effect, he came to a variety of conclusions about the
social order which wouldn’t gain widespread traction until decades or even centuries after his
death. Universal suffrage, sexual equality, decriminalisation of homosexuality, abolition of 
the death penalty, animal welfare, no-fault divorce… the list of stuff which he essentially 
inferred from first principles yet ran strongly counter to the prevailing cultural norms is 
striking.

He was notoriously bad at getting his work published, and almost all of what he wrote had to be
collated and published posthumously by friends and proteges. A lot of editorial work went into 
making these works acceptable to the public, to the point where his defence of homosexuality 
didn’t come to light until 1931, over a century after he wrote it.

Many of the ideas he advocated have been part of the society we all grew up in for so long that
we don’t even recognise them as active choices of how our society is organised, but others are 
weirdly specific contemporary progressive ideas. For example, he very specifically drew attention
to sexual promiscuity of women as being judged disproportionately harshly compared to that of men.
He claimed there were other norms, such as sexual fidelity, that undercut any harms that might
result from sexual promiscuity, and shaming women on the basis of their sexual appetite just 
harmed everybody. This is a point that contemporary feminists are still having to make two 
centuries later. With a few small tweaks, a lot of what he wrote on sexuality could have come 
straight out of a contemporary discussion on sex-positivity. A reminder: he was writing this at 
about the same time Jane Austen was writing Mansfield Park.

I am going somewhere with this. I’m not just yammering on about how cool I think Jeremy Bentham 
is. So here we go. Here we get to the point of this little rant.

Treating everything you know about the world as suspect and trying to reason about it from as 
small a set of assumptions as possible is, to my mind, one of the fundamental tools of analytical
thought. Not everyone agrees with me on this. There is a particularly annoying strand of post-
cultural-turn thought which rears its head whenever I try this in public. “What’s that?” it’ll
say, “you’re trying to infer objectively-grounded facts about the universe? Well you *can’t*, you
naive silly sausage, because whether you like it or not, you’re in a *culture*, and that culture 
permeates your entire conception of reality, and you can’t ever really know anything, so there!” 
Then it sits there, like a cat that’s inordinately smug about what it’s just dropped in the litter
box.

I’m not *entirely* unsympathetic to this idea. We are a product of the culture we’re raised in.
It would be silly to think that if I grew up 12th Century Saxony or early Imperial China that I
would have the same moral and political sensibilities that I do now. I would probably believe 
what most other people in those times and places believed. Given that, maybe it is unreasonable
to think that I can somehow discard the biases of my own culture.

But then I look at Jeremy Bentham, who, at a time when the morality of chattel-slavery was still
a hotly-debated topic, was saying that It’s Okay to Be Gay and we shouldn’t slut-shame. Throw in
a Belle and Sebastian album and an animated gif of a puppy fighting it’s own reflection, and he 
could be on Tumblr.

Jeremy Bentham’s method is my method. My justification for progressive liberalism comes from
starting at the same premises he started at and playing them forward. It’s phenomenally easier for
me to do that than it was for Jeremy Bentham, because we’ve had 200 years of progress and I’m 
surrounded by other people who have the same set of object-level beliefs as I do. Those people 
are happy to support this method when it’s advocating LGBT+ rights and sex-positivity, but if it
delivers anything from left-field, that’s when the knives come out.

Here is a radical proposition: Jeremy Bentham wasn’t just ahead of his time — he was ahead of *our*
time. This was definitely true as recently as 1967 when homosexuality was decriminalised in the UK.
Maybe in another hundred years we’ll all be taking our pigs for an ante-prandial circumgyration 
along a row of mummified corpses. Taking a less facetious tack, over half of his writings have 
never been published. Who knows what he wrote which we would find bizarre today but which our great-
grandchildren wouldn’t bat an eyelid at.

More generally, maybe you can’t have the visionary foresight without the eccentricity. Even among
progressive people, who pay a lot of lip-service to celebrating diversity, there is a surprising 
amount of hostility to weird nerds re-deriving the social order from first principles. When we’re
judging people for doing this, maybe we should remember Jeremy Bentham. Perhaps this method has 
more value than meets the eye.
```

-----------------------------
CHANGEEEE
<a name="#Erisology-and-thinking-less-wrongly"></a>
## Erisology and thinking less wrongly
([overview](#overview))



----------------------
<a name="#business-finance-entrepreneurship-management"></a>
## Business, finance, entrepeneurship, management
([overview](#overview))

<a name="#Consulting"></a>
### Consulting
([overview](#overview))

<a name="#consultings-value-add"></a>
### Consulting's value-add
([overview](#overview))

Loku cofounder Raj Ramanan's [answer](https://qr.ae/TW1HiJ) to the Quora question 

```markdown
"What value do consulting firms (like McKinsey, Bain, et al.) really add to an 
operation? What exactly is it that they do that commands such premium compensation
and, more importantly, has created an entire sustainable and enduring industry?"
```

is apparently very well-received, including by a number of "top-shelf consultants" from the MBB firms themselves. So:

```markdown
I interned at Bain & Co., started my career at McKinsey & Co, worked in the operations
/turnaround group at KKR with ex-BCG consultants, worked at an internal consulting 
function at Bear Stearns, and was an independent consultant to small and medium
businesses before co-founding a company (Loku).

I first want to make the distinction between generalist strategy consulting shops 
(McKinsey, Bain, and BCG) vs. specialized or technical shops (Accenture, boutiques).
I can only speak credibly about the former (though, as a former consultant, a lack of
credibility has never stopped me from talking on any subject...).

Cynicism aside, the real **value a consulting firm provides is**:

1. **Political leverage**: CEOs that want or need to make an unpopular decision often 
bring in a consulting firm to help. This provides ammunition to recommend an unpopular
or risky decision to the board (expansion into a new business line or geography, or 
shutting down a plant). The CEO can also distance herself from an unpopular decision by
blaming the consultants. Finally, if things go wrong, consultants are a handy scapegoat. 

2. **Pool knowledge across functions**: Consultants are not part of the client's culture,
politics, or org culture. In the first month, as the firm builds a fact base, consultants 
usually interview people across functions. In large companies, cross-functional problem-
solving rarely happens. Just getting different functions in a room typically unlocks
creative problem solving.

3. **Pool knowledge across levels**: Similarly, consultants interview, watch, and tag
along with people down the org structure, often starting with customers and moving through
sales and line roles. CEOs and the exec team of large companies rarely do this (exception
being their largest customers). There are tremendous insights to be had by doing this.

4. **Deep focus on one problem**: The biggest value is that you have a dedicated team of
pretty smart people who are generally unbiased that can focus deeply on one particular 
problem. At a company, in any role, you have a day job and at best can focus only a 
portion of your time on a particular issue. Nowhere is this more true than at a startup, 
but that's another Quora post.

I want to point out that even though you could group all of this as "telling you what you
already know," all of this is real value that impacts the bottom line however you measure 
it, and that in the absence of strong leadership or a big, risky culture change, could not
have been accomplished without the consultant.

**What value does a consulting firm NOT provide?**

1. **Subject matter expertise**: The people who are doing the bulk of the work are fresh
out of college (like I was) or business school, often from a range of majors, with little-
to-no work experience. They don't know anything. They are really smart and very hard-
working and resourceful and well-trained, but they know absolutely nothing coming in about
your industry, company, or particular issue. More interestingly, the director or partner
on the project is not really a subject matter expert either. She has built her career in
a particular industry or practice area and has served a range of clients across a range
of problems. Her value is pattern recognition, but there is no way she can know more about
the client's industry, company, or problem then someone who lives it every single day for
years. And most partners and directors are career consultants, not industry vets (certainly
true at the big 3 shops).

2. **Executive coaching**: The firms love to provide long-term, ongoing, ambiguous projects 
on a retainer. If you are a CEO, get a therapist. Or some friends. Or a board that is 
actually helpful. Or a best friend. You don't want a partner at a firm who spends a half
hour a month thinking about you or your problem to bill you on a retainer. 

3. **Actual decision making**: Consultants are great at assembling facts from the outside 
world, bringing in perspective from all functions and levels of your company, finding
interesting patterns, and providing you with a point of view. They will jump in the line of
fire on controversial decisions and fall on the sword if things go wrong. But they can never
actually make the tough decision. No outsider can every truly understand the needs of the 
various stakeholders. No outsider has as much at stake personally and professionally. It is
so incredibly different to recommend layoffs for 10% of a plant (100 people) vs. actually 
firing a single person. I've done both and the former does not have the emotional or 
cultural consequences of the latter. Only the CEO or other leader at a company can actually
pull the trigger; the consultant can at best show you how to hold the gun and maybe give you
a few targets to aim at.


Would I ever hire a consultant?

I believe good leadership (promoting cross-functional decision-making, a flat or open org
structure, autonomy across roles; spending time with customers, talking to folks on the 
front line; and all the other stuff HBR publishes) can provide much more value than hiring 
an outside consultant can.

But, if I could do the following, in certain cases, I would hire a consultant:

1. **Impose limits**: Make sure it is a defined, narrow problem well before the consultants 
show up. Make sure it's a project of defined length, with a defined number and type of 
resource. Demand frequent updates and check-ins. Have the option of aborting the project if
you are not getting what you want or if the directional answer is good enough.

2. **Use a bid process**: The big 3 will lecture you and their individual differences and 
when I interviewed at the firms, I was obsessed about what made them different. They are the
same. They hire from the same talent pool. They are interchangeable. Put them through a 
competitive bid process (sealed bid or auction), with pre-set milestones. They will hate this.
They will tell you that they don't participate in auctions. They will try to wiggle out by 
defining the problem differently or changing the milestones or taking you out to dinner. Don't
do it. Force the process. They will comply. I've done it myself by sourcing consulting services
on behalf of Bear Stearns.

3. **Demand partner time**: It's your (or really your investors' or shareholders') money and
you are paying a fixed monthly fee. Demand partner time. Earlier objections notwithstanding,
I'd rather spend time with someone with 10 or 20 years of consulting experience who has at
least seen my problem in a different industry or knows anything about my industry than a 22 
year old with a fresh diploma who has never actually made a business decision. I know because
I was that kid. Best of intentions and a killer work ethic, but I'd want partner time.

I have a ton of respect for the firms I worked at and the colleagues I worked with. I learned 
a tremendous amount and made lifelong friends. Consulting as an industry and these three firms
in particular provide real business value; companies just need to know how to appropriately 
use these service providers.
```

<a name="#Management"></a>
### Management
([overview](#overview))

<a name="#Leadership-principles"></a>
### Leadership principles
([overview](#overview))

From Amazon's 

<a name="#High-standards"></a>
### High standards
([overview](#overview))

Jeff Bezos' [2017 annual letter to shareholders](https://blog.aboutamazon.com/company-news/2015-letter-to-shareholders) gives "high standards" as the answer to "how to keep ahead of customers' divine discontent" and talks a bit more about what high standards entail in practice. 

In summary: 

```markdown
The four elements of high standards as we see it: 

they are *teachable*, 
they are *domain specific*, 
you must *recognize* them, and 
you must explicitly coach realistic *scope*.
```

Jeff believes high standards are teachable:

```markdown
First, there’s a foundational question: are high standards intrinsic or teachable? If you 
take me on your basketball team, you can teach me many things, but you can’t teach me to be
taller. Do we first and foremost need to *select* for “high standards” people? If so, this 
letter would need to be mostly about hiring practices, but I don’t think so. I believe high
standards are teachable. In fact, people are pretty good at learning high standards simply 
through exposure. High standards are contagious. Bring a new person onto a high standards 
team, and they’ll quickly adapt. The opposite is also true. If low standards prevail, those
too will quickly spread. And though exposure works well to teach high standards, I believe 
you can accelerate that rate of learning by articulating a few core principles of high 
standards, which I hope to share in this letter.
```

Jeff also notes that high standards are domain-specific:

```markdown
Another important question is whether high standards are universal or domain specific. In 
other words, if you have high standards in one area, do you automatically have high standards
elsewhere? I believe high standards are domain specific, and that you have to learn high 
standards separately in every arena of interest. When I started Amazon, I had high standards
on inventing, on customer care, and (thankfully) on hiring. But I didn’t have high standards
on operational process: how to keep fixed problems fixed, how to eliminate defects at the 
root, how to inspect processes, and much more. I had to learn and develop high standards on 
all of that (my colleagues were my tutors).

Understanding this point is important because it keeps you humble. You can consider yourself
a person of high standards *in general* and still have debilitating blind spots. There can 
be whole arenas of endeavor where you may not even *know* that your standards are low or non
-existent, and certainly not world class. It’s critical to be open to that likelihood.
```

It's also important to recognize high standards, and know scope, i.e. realistic expectations for how hard it should be (how much work it will take) to achieve that result -- this isn't as obvious as you may think:

```markdown
First, you have to be able to *recognize* what good looks like in that domain.

A close friend recently decided to learn to do a perfect free-standing handstand. No leaning
against a wall. Not for just a few seconds. Instagram good. She decided to start her journey 
by taking a handstand workshop at her yoga studio. She then practiced for a while but wasn’t 
getting the results she wanted. So, she hired a handstand coach. Yes, I know what you’re 
thinking, but evidently this is an actual thing that exists. In the very first lesson, the 
coach gave her some wonderful advice. “Most people,” he said, “think that if they work hard,
they should be able to master a handstand in about two weeks. The reality is that it takes 
about six months of daily practice. If you think you should be able to do it in two weeks,
you’re just going to end up quitting.” Unrealistic beliefs on scope – often hidden and 
undiscussed – kill high standards. To achieve high standards yourself or as part of a team,
you need to form and proactively communicate realistic beliefs about how hard something is
going to be – something this coach understood well.
```

"Recognizing high standards" and "scope" also come into play together in Jeff's famous (or infamous) 6-page memos in lieu of PPT slides:

```markdown
We don’t do PowerPoint (or any other slide-oriented) presentations at Amazon. Instead, we 
write narratively structured six-page memos. We silently read one at the beginning of each
meeting in a kind of “study hall.” Not surprisingly, the quality of these memos varies widely.
Some have the clarity of angels singing. They are brilliant and thoughtful and set up the 
meeting for high-quality discussion. Sometimes they come in at the other end of the spectrum.

In the handstand example, it’s pretty straightforward to *recognize* high standards. It 
wouldn’t be difficult to lay out in detail the requirements of a well-executed handstand, 
and then you’re either doing it or you’re not. The writing example is very different. The 
difference between a great memo and an average one is much squishier. It would be extremely 
hard to write down the detailed requirements that make up a great memo. Nevertheless, I find
that much of the time, readers react to great memos very similarly. They know it when they 
see it. The standard is there, and it is real, even if it’s not easily describable.

Here’s what we’ve figured out. Often, when a memo isn’t great, it’s not the writer’s 
inability to *recognize* the high standard, but instead a wrong expectation on *scope*: they
mistakenly believe a high-standards, six-page memo can be written in one or two days or even
a few hours, when really it might take a week or more! They’re trying to perfect a handstand
in just two weeks, and we’re not coaching them right. The great memos are written and re-
written, shared with colleagues who are asked to improve the work, set aside for a couple of
days, and then edited again with a fresh mind. They simply can’t be done in a day or two. The
key point here is that you can improve results through the simple act of teaching scope – that
a great memo probably should take a week or more.
```

Note that nowhere does Jeff talk about needing "skill" for meeting high standards. He addresses this explicitly w.r.t. the memo writing example:

```markdown
Beyond recognizing the standard and having realistic expectations on scope, how about skill?
Surely to write a world class memo, you have to be an extremely skilled writer? Is it another
required element? In my view, not so much, at least not for the individual in the context of 
teams. The football coach doesn’t need to be able to throw, and a film director doesn’t need 
to be able to act. But they both do need to recognize high standards for those things and 
teach realistic expectations on scope. Even in the example of writing a six-page memo, that’s 
teamwork. Someone on the team needs to have the skill, but it doesn’t have to be you. (As a 
side note, by tradition at Amazon, authors’ names never appear on the memos – the memo is 
from the whole team.)
```

Benefits of high standards:

```markdown
1. Naturally and most obviously, you’re going to build better products and services for 
customers – this would be reason enough!

2. Perhaps a little less obvious: people are drawn to high standards – they help with 
recruiting and retention.

3. More subtle: a culture of high standards is protective of all the “invisible” but crucial 
work that goes on in every company. I’m talking about the work that no one sees. The work that
gets done when no one is watching. In a high standards culture, doing that work well is its own
reward – it’s part of what it means to be a professional.

4. And finally, high standards are fun! Once you’ve tasted high standards, there’s no going back.
```

<a name="#Business-success-measures"></a>
### Business success measures
([overview](#overview))

From Jeff Bezos' [first annual letter to shareholders](https://blog.aboutamazon.com/company-news/2017-letter-to-shareholders), way back in the dawn of time (1997, more exactly), where he talks about his "fundamental management and decision-making approach":

```markdown
We believe that a fundamental measure of our success will be the *shareholder value we create
over the long term*. This value will be a direct result of our ability to extend and solidify
our current market leadership position. The stronger our market leadership, the more powerful
our economic model. Market leadership can translate directly to higher revenue, higher 
profitability, greater capital velocity, and correspondingly stronger returns on invested 
capital.

Our decisions have consistently reflected this focus. We first measure ourselves in terms of 
the metrics most indicative of our market leadership: customer and revenue growth, the degree 
to which our customers continue to purchase from us on a repeat basis, and the strength of our
brand. We have invested and will continue to invest aggressively to expand and leverage our 
customer base, brand, and infrastructure as we move to establish an enduring franchise.

Because of our emphasis on the long term, we may make decisions and weigh tradeoffs differently
than some companies. Accordingly, we want to share with you our fundamental management and 
decision-making approach so that you, our shareholders, may confirm that it is consistent with 
your investment philosophy: 

1. We will continue to focus relentlessly on our customers.

2. We will continue to make investment decisions in light of long-term market leadership 
considerations rather than short-term profitability considerations or short-term Wall Street 
reactions.

3. We will continue to measure our programs and the effectiveness of our investments analytically,
to jettison those that do not provide acceptable returns, and to step up our investment in those
that work best. We will continue to learn from both our successes and our failures.

4. We will make bold rather than timid investment decisions where we see a sufficient probability
of gaining market leadership advantages. Some of these investments will pay off, others will not,
and we will have learned another valuable lesson in either case.

5. When forced to choose between optimizing the appearance of our GAAP accounting and maximizing
the present value of future cash flows, we’ll take the cash flows.

6. We will share our strategic thought processes with you when we make bold choices (to the extent
competitive pressures allow), so that you may evaluate for yourselves whether we are making 
rational long-term leadership investments.

7. We will work hard to spend wisely and maintain our lean culture. We understand the importance
of continually reinforcing a cost-conscious culture, particularly in a business incurring net losses.

8. We will balance our focus on growth with emphasis on long-term profitability and capital
management. At this stage, we choose to prioritize growth because we believe that scale is central 
to achieving the potential of our business model.

9. We will continue to focus on hiring and retaining versatile and talented employees, and continue 
to weight their compensation to stock options rather than cash. We know our success will be largely
affected by our ability to attract and retain a motivated employee base, each of whom must think
like, and therefore must actually be, an owner.

We aren’t so bold as to claim that the above is the “right” investment philosophy, but it’s ours,
and we would be remiss if we weren’t clear in the approach we have taken and will continue to take.
```

<a name="#always-day-1"></a>
### Always Day 1
([overview](#overview))

Jeff's [2016 annual letter to shareholders](https://blog.aboutamazon.com/company-news/2016-letter-to-shareholders) has some great quotes about how he resists organizational stasis at Amazon.

Responding to the question "Jeff, what does Day 2 look like?" at a recent all-hands meeting:

```markdown
    Day 2 is stasis. 
    Followed by irrelevance. 
    Followed by excruciating, painful decline. 
    Followed by death. 
    And that is why it is *always* Day 1.
```

The "starter pack" of "essentials for Day 1 defense:

```markdown
Such a question can’t have a simple answer. There will be many elements, multiple paths, 
and many traps. I don’t know the whole answer, but I may know bits of it: 

- customer obsession
- a skeptical view of proxies
- the eager adoption of external trends
- high-velocity decision making.
```

Or, as Jeff wraps up:

```markdown
So, have you settled only for decision quality, or are you mindful of decision velocity too?
Are the world’s trends tailwinds for you?
Are you falling prey to proxies, or do they serve you?
And most important of all, are you delighting customers?
```

Customer obsession matters most by far:

```markdown
There are many ways to center a business. You can be competitor focused, you can be product
focused, you can be technology focused, you can be business model focused, and there are more.
But in my view, obsessive customer focus is by far the most protective of Day 1 vitality.

Why? There are many advantages to a customer-centric approach, but here’s the big one: 

Customers are always beautifully, wonderfully dissatisfied, even when they report being happy
and business is great. Even when they don’t yet know it, customers want something better, and 
your desire to delight customers will drive you to invent on their behalf. No customer ever 
asked Amazon to create the Prime membership program, but it sure turns out they wanted it, and
I could give you many such examples.

Staying in Day 1 requires you to experiment patiently, accept failures, plant seeds, protect 
saplings, and double down when you see customer delight. A customer-obsessed culture best 
creates the conditions where all of that can happen.
```

This mirrors what he said in his very first annual letter:

```markdown
From the beginning, our focus has been on offering our customers compelling value. We realized
that the Web was, and still is, the World Wide Wait. Therefore, we set out to offer customers 
something they simply could not get any other way, and began serving them with books. We brought
them much more selection than was possible in a physical store (our store would now occupy 6
football fields), and presented it in a useful, easy-to-search, and easy-to-browse format in a 
store open 365 days a year, 24 hours a day. We maintained a dogged focus on improving the 
shopping experience, and in 1997 substantially enhanced our store. We now offer customers gift
certificates, 1-Click shopping, and vastly more reviews, content, browsing options, and 
recommendation features. We dramatically lowered prices, further increasing customer value. Word
of mouth remains the most powerful customer acquisition tool we have, and we are grateful for 
the trust our customers have placed in us. Repeat purchases and word of mouth have combined to 
make Amazon.com the market leader in online bookselling.
```

In the 2017 annual letter, Jeff again echoes this with the "divine discontent" quote (see also [high standards](#high-standards)):

```markdown
One thing I love about customers is that they are divinely discontent. Their expectations are
never static — they go up. It’s human nature. We didn’t ascend from our hunter-gatherer days by
being satisfied. People have a voracious appetite for a better way, and yesterday’s ‘wow’ quickly
becomes today’s ‘ordinary’. I see that cycle of improvement happening at a faster rate than ever
before. It may be because customers have such easy access to more information than ever before —
in only a few seconds and with a couple taps on their phones, customers can read reviews, compare
prices from multiple retailers, see whether something’s in stock, find out how fast it will ship
or be available for pick-up, and more. These examples are from retail, but I sense that the same
customer empowerment phenomenon is happening broadly across everything we do at Amazon and most 
other industries as well. You cannot rest on your laurels in this world. Customers won’t have it.

How do you stay ahead of ever-rising customer expectations? There’s no single way to do it – it’s
a combination of many things. But *high standards* (widely deployed and at all levels of detail) are
certainly a big part of it. We’ve had some successes over the years in our quest to meet the high
expectations of customers. We’ve also had billions of dollars’ worth of failures along the way. 
```

Specific product examples from Jeff's [previous year's annual letter](https://ir.aboutamazon.com/static-files/f124548c-5d0b-41a6-a670-d85bb191fcec):

```markdown
Many companies describe themselves as customer-focused, but few walk the walk. Most big technology
companies are competitor focused. They see what others are doing, and then work to fast follow. In contrast, 90
to 95% of what we build in AWS is driven by what customers tell us they want. A good example is our new
database engine, Amazon Aurora. Customers have been frustrated by the proprietary nature, high cost, and
licensing terms of traditional, commercial-grade database providers. And while many companies have started
moving toward more open engines like MySQL and Postgres, they often struggle to get the performance they
need. Customers asked us if we could eliminate that inconvenient trade-off, and that’s why we built Aurora. It
has commercial-grade durability and availability, is fully compatible with MySQL, has up to 5 times better
performance than the typical MySQL implementation, but is 1/10th the price of the traditional, commercial-grade
database engines. This has struck a resonant chord with customers, and Aurora is the fastest-growing service in
the history of AWS. Nearly this same story could be told about Redshift, our managed data warehouse service,
which is the second fastest growing service in AWS history – both small and large companies are moving their
data warehouses to Redshift.

Our approach to pricing is also driven by our customer-centric culture – we’ve dropped prices 51 times, in
many cases before there was any competitive pressure to do so. In addition to price reductions, we’ve also
continued to launch new lower cost services like Aurora, Redshift, QuickSight (our new Business Intelligence
service), EC2 Container Service (our new compute container service), and Lambda (our pioneering server-less
computing capability), while extending our services to offer a range of highly cost-effective options for running
just about every type of application or IT use case imaginable. We even roll out and continuously improve
services like Trusted Advisor, which alerts customers when they can save money – resulting in hundreds of
millions of dollars in savings for our customers. I’m pretty sure we’re the only IT vendor telling customers how
to stop spending money with us
```

The part where you experiment and accept failures and plant seeds etc in the first quote isn't just talk -- Brad Stone covers it in great detail w.r.t. how Prime was created in his 2013 book *The Everything Store*. Again Jeff also covers it in the [previous year's annual letter](https://ir.aboutamazon.com/static-files/f124548c-5d0b-41a6-a670-d85bb191fcec):

```markdown
One area where I think we are especially distinctive is failure. I believe we are the best 
place in the world to fail (we have plenty of practice!), and failure and invention are 
inseparable twins. To invent you have to experiment, and if you know in advance that it’s 
going to work, it’s not an experiment. Most large organizations embrace the idea of invention,
but are not willing to suffer the string of failed experiments necessary to get there. 
Outsized returns often come from betting against conventional wisdom, and conventional wisdom
is usually right. Given a ten percent chance of a 100 times payoff, you should take that bet 
every time. But you’re still going to be wrong nine times out of ten. We all know that if you
swing for the fences, you’re going to strike out a lot, but you’re also going to hit some home 
runs. The difference between baseball and business, however, is that baseball has a truncated 
outcome distribution. When you swing, no matter how well you connect with the ball, the most 
runs you can get is four. In business, every once in a while, when you step up to the plate, 
you can score 1,000 runs. This long-tailed distribution of returns is why it’s important to be 
bold. Big winners pay for so many experiments.

AWS, Marketplace and Prime are all examples of bold bets at Amazon that worked, and we’re 
fortunate to have those three big pillars. They have helped us grow into a large company, and 
there are certain things that only large companies can do. With a tip of the hat to our Seattle 
neighbors, no matter how good an entrepreneur you are, you’re not going to build an all-composite 
787 in your garage startup – not one you’d want to fly in anyway. Used well, our scale enables us 
to build services for customers that we could otherwise never even contemplate. But also, if we’re 
not vigilant and thoughtful, size could slow us down and diminish our inventiveness.
```

This segues naturally into Ben Thompson's article [Divine Discontent: Disruption’s Antidote](https://stratechery.com/2018/divine-discontent-disruptions-antidote/). There are two advantages to this obsessive customer focus, argues Ben:

```markdown
Critically, when it comes to Internet-based services, this customer focus does not come at the 
expense of a focus on infrastructure or distribution or suppliers: while those were the means to
customers in the analog world, in the online world controlling the customer relationship gives a
company power over its suppliers, the capital to build out infrastructure, and control over 
distribution. Bezos is not so much choosing to prioritize customers insomuch as he has unlocked the
key to controlling value chains in an era of aggregation.

Bezos’s letter, though, reveals another advantage of focusing on customers: it makes it impossible 
to overshoot. When I wrote that piece five years ago, I was thinking of the opportunity provided by
a focus on the user experience as if it were an asymptote: one could get ever closer to the ultimate
user experience, but never achieve it. ...

In fact, though, consumer expectations are not static: they are, as Bezos’ memorably states, 
“divinely discontent”. What is amazing today is table stakes tomorrow, and, perhaps surprisingly, 
that makes for a tremendous business opportunity: if your company is predicated on delivering the 
best possible experience for consumers, then your company will never achieve its goal.

In the case of Amazon, that this unattainable and ever-changing objective is embedded in the company’s
culture is, in conjunction with the company’s demonstrated ability to spin up new businesses on the 
profits of established ones, a sort of perpetual motion machine; I’m not sure that Amazon will beat 
Apple to $1 trillion, but they surely have the best shot at two.
```

Eugene also quotes Ben above, and [adds](https://www.eugenewei.com/blog/2018/5/21/invisible-asymptotes) that "you can't overserve on user experience":

```markdown
Pattern recognition is the default operation mode of much of Silicon Valley and other fields, but
it is almost always, by its very nature, backwards-looking. One can hardly blame most people for
resorting to it because it's a way of minimizing blame, and the economic returns of the Valley are
so amplified by the structural advantages of winners that even matching market beta makes for a 
comfortable living.

However, if consumer desires are shifting, it's always just a matter of time before pattern 
recognition leads to an invisible asymptote. One reason startups are often the tip of the spear for
innovation in technology is that they can't rely on market beta to just roll along. Achieving 
product-market fit for them is an existential challenge, and they have no backup plans. Imagine an 
investor who has to achieve alpha to even survive.

You can't overserve on user experience... as a product person, I'd argue, in parallel,
that it is difficult and likely impossible to understand your customer too deeply. Amazon's mission 
to the be the world's most customer-centric company is inherently a long-term strategy because it is
a one with an infinite time scale and no asymptote to its slope.
```

The next most important is to resist managing by proxy -- like process as proxy, or surveys as proxy for customers. This is a direct instance of Goodhart's law, and it's so important I'm thinking of giving it its own subheading, or slotting it under a high-level category called "Goodhart-type failures":

```markdown
As companies get larger and more complex, there’s a tendency to manage to proxies. This comes
in many shapes and sizes, and it’s dangerous, subtle, and very Day 2.

A common example is process as proxy. Good process serves you so you can serve customers. But
if you’re not watchful, the process can become the thing. This can happen very easily in large 
organizations. The process becomes the proxy for the result you want. You stop looking at 
outcomes and just make sure you’re doing the process right. Gulp. It’s not that rare to hear a 
junior leader defend a bad outcome with something like, “Well, we followed the process.” A more 
experienced leader will use it as an opportunity to investigate and improve the process. The 
process is not the thing. It’s always worth asking, do we own the process or does the process 
own us? In a Day 2 company, you might find it’s the second.

Another example: market research and customer surveys can become proxies for customers – 
something that’s especially dangerous when you’re inventing and designing products. “Fifty-five
percent of beta testers report being satisfied with this feature. That is up from 47% in the
first survey.” That’s hard to interpret and could unintentionally mislead.

Good inventors and designers *deeply* understand their customer. They spend tremendous energy 
developing that intuition. They study and understand many anecdotes rather than only the averages
you’ll find on surveys. They live with the design.

I’m not against beta testing or surveys. But you, the product or service owner, must understand
the customer, have a vision, and love the offering. Then, beta testing and research can help you
find your blind spots. A remarkable customer experience starts with heart, intuition, curiosity,
play, guts, taste. You won’t find any of it in a survey.
```

The third is to embrace "powerful external trends quickly", because "fighting them is fighting the future; embrace them and you have a tailwind" -- here Jeff focuses on ML+AI in particular:

```markdown
The outside world can push you into Day 2 if you won’t or can’t embrace powerful trends quickly. 
If you fight them, you’re probably fighting the future. Embrace them and you have a tailwind.

These big trends are not that hard to spot (they get talked and written about a lot), but they 
can be strangely hard for large organizations to embrace. We’re in the middle of an obvious one
right now: machine learning and artificial intelligence.

Over the past decades computers have broadly automated tasks that programmers could describe 
with clear rules and algorithms. Modern machine learning techniques now allow us to do the same
for tasks where describing the precise rules is much harder.

At Amazon, we’ve been engaged in the practical application of machine learning for many years
now. Some of this work is highly visible: our autonomous Prime Air delivery drones; the Amazon 
Go convenience store that uses machine vision to eliminate checkout lines; and Alexa,1 our 
cloud-based AI assistant. (We still struggle to keep Echo in stock, despite our best efforts. A
high-quality problem, but a problem. We’re working on it.)

But much of what we do with machine learning happens beneath the surface. Machine learning drives
our algorithms for demand forecasting, product search ranking, product and deals recommendations,
merchandising placements, fraud detection, translations, and much more. Though less visible, much
of the impact of machine learning will be of this type – quietly but meaningfully improving core
operations.

Inside AWS, we’re excited to lower the costs and barriers to machine learning and AI so
organizations of all sizes can take advantage of these advanced techniques.

Using our pre-packaged versions of popular deep learning frameworks running on P2 compute 
instances (optimized for this workload), customers are already developing powerful systems 
ranging everywhere from early disease detection to increasing crop yields. And we’ve also made
Amazon’s higher level services available in a convenient form. Amazon Lex (what’s inside Alexa),
Amazon Polly, and Amazon Rekognition remove the heavy lifting from natural language understanding, 
speech generation, and image analysis. They can be accessed with simple API calls – no machine 
learning expertise required. Watch this space. Much more to come.
```

The last one is high-velocity decision-making, or what Jeff memorably calls "disagree and commit" -- this is what startups do, but it doesn't scale naturally unless your org design explicitly deals with it:

```markdown
Day 2 companies make high-quality decisions, but they make high-quality decisions slowly. To
keep the energy and dynamism of Day 1, you have to somehow make high-quality, high-velocity 
decisions. Easy for start-ups and very challenging for large organizations. The senior team 
at Amazon is determined to keep our decision-making velocity high. Speed matters in business
– plus a high-velocity decision making environment is more fun too. We don’t know all the 
answers, but here are some thoughts.

First, never use a one-size-fits-all decision-making process. Many decisions are reversible, 
two-way doors. Those decisions can use a light-weight process. For those, so what if you’re
wrong? I wrote about this in more detail in last year’s letter.

Second, most decisions should probably be made with somewhere around 70% of the information you
wish you had. If you wait for 90%, in most cases, you’re probably being slow. Plus, either way,
you need to be good at quickly recognizing and correcting bad decisions. If you’re good at
course correcting, being wrong may be less costly than you think, whereas being slow is going
to be expensive for sure.

Third, use the phrase “disagree and commit.” This phrase will save a lot of time. If you have
conviction on a particular direction even though there’s no consensus, it’s helpful to say, 
“Look, I know we disagree on this but will you gamble with me on it? Disagree and commit?” By 
the time you’re at this point, no one can know the answer for sure, and you’ll probably get a 
quick yes.

This isn’t one way. If you’re the boss, you should do this too. I disagree and commit all the 
time. We recently greenlit a particular Amazon Studios original. I told the team my view: 
debatable whether it would be interesting enough, complicated to produce, the business terms 
aren’t that good, and we have lots of other opportunities. They had a completely different 
opinion and wanted to go ahead. I wrote back right away with “I disagree and commit and hope it
becomes the most watched thing we’ve ever made.” Consider how much slower this decision cycle
would have been if the team had actually had to convince me rather than simply get my commitment.

Note what this example is not: it’s not me thinking to myself “well, these guys are wrong and
missing the point, but this isn’t worth me chasing.” It’s a genuine disagreement of opinion, a
candid expression of my view, a chance for the team to weigh my view, and a quick, sincere 
commitment to go their way. And given that this team has already brought home 11 Emmys, 6 Golden
Globes, and 3 Oscars, I’m just glad they let me in the room at all!

Fourth, recognize true misalignment issues early and escalate them immediately. Sometimes teams
have different objectives and fundamentally different views. They are not aligned. No amount of
discussion, no number of meetings will resolve that deep misalignment. Without escalation, the 
default dispute resolution mechanism for this scenario is exhaustion. Whoever has more stamina 
carries the decision.

I’ve seen many examples of sincere misalignment at Amazon over the years. When we decided to 
invite third party sellers to compete directly against us on our own product detail pages – that
was a big one. Many smart, well-intentioned Amazonians were simply not at all aligned with the 
direction. The big decision set up hundreds of smaller decisions, many of which needed to be 
escalated to the senior team.

“You’ve worn me down” is an awful decision-making process. It’s slow and de-energizing. 
Go for quick escalation instead – it’s better.
```

Jeff expands upon the "never use a one-size-fits-all decision-making process" remark above in the previous annual letter, by distinguishing between two types of decisions:

```markdown
There are some subtle traps that even high-performing large organizations can fall into 
as a matter of course, and we’ll have to learn as an institution how to guard against 
them. One common pitfall for large organizations – one that hurts speed and inventiveness 
– is “one-size-fits-all” decision making.

Some decisions are consequential and irreversible or nearly irreversible – one-way doors
– and these decisions must be made methodically, carefully, slowly, with great 
deliberation and consultation. If you walk through and don’t like what you see on the
other side, you can’t get back to where you were before. We can call these Type 1 
decisions. But most decisions aren’t like that – they are changeable, reversible – they’re
two-way doors. If you’ve made a suboptimal Type 2 decision, you don’t have to live with 
the consequences for that long. You can reopen the door and go back through. Type 2
decisions can and should be made quickly by high judgment individuals or small groups.

As organizations get larger, there seems to be a tendency to use the heavy-weight Type 1 
decision-making *process* on most decisions, including many Type 2 decisions. The end result
of this is slowness, unthoughtful risk aversion, failure to experiment sufficiently, and 
consequently diminished invention.1 We’ll have to figure out how to fight that tendency.
```

<a name="#Dealing-with-message-distortion"></a>
### Dealing with message distortion
([overview](#overview))

Eugene Wei, whose blog [Remains of the Day](https://www.eugenewei.com/) is just great in general, has a post called [Compress to impress](https://www.eugenewei.com/blog/2017/5/11/jpeg-your-ideas) (URL: "JPEG your ideas") that pithily captures and expounds on a bunch of stuff I've vaguely thought about and seen elsewhere. 

The main issue:

```markdown
Even with modern communication infrastructure, however, any modern CEO deals with
amplification and distortion issues with any message. Humans learn about this problem 
very early on by playing telephone or operator, or what I just learned is more
canonically known outside the U.S. as Chinese whispers. One person whispers a message 
in another person's ear, and it's passed on down the line to see if the original phrase
can survive intact to the last person in the chain. Generally, errors accumulate along
the way and what makes it to the end is some shockingly defective copy of the original.

Despite learning this lesson early on, most people in leadership positions still 
underestimate just how pervasive this problem is. This is why any manager or executive 
is familiar with how much time they spend on communicating the same things to different
groups in the organization. It feels like it's all you do sometimes, and yet you still
encounter people who feel like they're in the dark.
```

Since Eugene worked at Amazon back in the day, he falls back to [Jeff Bezos](#jeff-bezos) as an example of a CEO who grokked this issue and came up with good ways to deal with it, in the process singling out the core problem of information flow as being what drives organizational design:

```markdown
I suspect that very early on in his career as CEO, Jeff noticed the Chinese whispers 
problem as the company scaled. Anyone who is lucky enough to lead a successful company 
very quickly senses the impossibility of scaling one's own time to all corners of the 
organization, but Jeff was laser focused on the more serious problem that presented, 
that of maintaining consistent strategy in all important decisions, many of which were
made outside his purview each day. At scale, maintaining strategic alignment feels like
an organizational design problem, but much of the impact of organizational design is
centered around how it impacts information flow.

This problem is made more vexing by not just the telephone game issue but by the human 
inability to carry around a whole lot of directives in their minds. Jeff could spend a 
ton of time in All Hands meetings or with his direct reports and other groups inside
Amazon, explaining his thinking in excruciating detail and hoping it sank in, but then 
he'd never have any time to do anything else.
```

I'm reminded of the term "Jeff bots" from Brad Stone's 2013 book *The Everything Store*, an almost compulsively-readable business book if there ever was one. 

How have people traditionally ensured message integrity when transmitted via the lossy media of oral tradition and hierarchical organizations? Distinctive message encoding:

```markdown
One of these is to encode you message in a very distinctive format. There are many 
rhetorical tricks that have stood the test of time, like alliteration or anadiplosis.
Perhaps supreme among these rhetorical forms is verse, especially when it rhymes. Both 
the rhythm and the rhyme (alliteration intentional) allow humans to compress and recall 
a message with greater accuracy than prose.

    Fe fi fo fum, I smell the blood of an Englishman.
 
It's thought that bards of old could recite epics like Homer's Odyssey entirely from
memory because the stories were in verse form (and through the use of memorization tricks
like memory palaces and visual encoding). I don't know many people who can recite any 
novels from memory, but I've occasionally run across someone who can recite a long poem by 
heart. That's the power of verse.
```

How Jeff encodes his messages distinctively -- Day 1 (more [here](#always-day-1)):

```markdown
I never chatted with Bezos about this, so I don't know if it was an explicit strategy on 
his part, but one of his great strengths as a communicator was the ability to encode the 
most important strategies for Amazon in very concise and memorable forms.

Take one example "Day 1." I don't know when he first said this to the company, but it was 
repeated endlessly all my years at Amazon. It's still Day 1. Jeff has even named one of the
Amazon buildings Day 1. In fact, I bet most of my readers know what Day 1 means, and Jeff 
doesn't even bother explaining what Day 1 is at the start of his letter to shareholders, so 
familiar is it to all followers of the company. Instead, he just jumps straight into talking
about how to fend off Day 2, which he doesn't even need to define because we all can probably
infer it from the structure of his formulation, but he does so anyway.

    Day 2 is stasis. 
    Followed by irrelevance. 
    Followed by excruciating, painful decline. 
    Followed by death. 
    And that is why it is always Day 1.
 
An entire philosophy, packed with ideas, compressed into two words. Day 1.
```

Another example of ideas codifed for maximum recall -- catchy annual themes to remind employees of that year's company goals:

```markdown
Go back even further, and there are dozens of examples of Bezos codifying key ideas for 
maximum recall. For example, every year I was at Amazon had a theme (reminiscent of how 
David Foster Wallace imagined in Infinite Jest that in the future corporate sponsors could
buy the rights to name years). These themes were concise and memorable ways to help 
everyone remember the most important goal of the company that year.

One year, when our primary goal was to grow our revenue and order volume as quickly as
possible to achieve the economies of scale that would capitalize on our high fixed cost
infrastructure investments and put wind into our flywheel, the theme was "Get Big Fast 
Baby." You can argue whether the "baby" at the end was necessary, but I think it's more 
memorable with it than without. Much easier to remember than "Grow revenues 80%" or 
"achieve economies of scale" or something like that.

Another time, as we looked out and saw the $1B revenue milestone approaching, one of Jeff's
chief concerns was whether our company's processes could scale to handle that volume of 
orders without breaking (I'll write another time about the $1B revenue scaling phenomenon). 
To head off any such stumbles, we set aside an entire year at the company for GOHIO. It 
stood for "Getting our house in order".

As the first analyst in the strategic planning group, I produced an order volume projection 
for $1B in revenue and also generated forecasts for other metrics of relevance for every 
group in the company. For example, the customer service department would have to handle a 
higher volume of customer contacts, and the website would have to handle a greater traffic
load.

Every group had that year of GOHIO to figure out how to scale to handle that volume without 
just linearly scaling its headcount and/or spending. If every group were just growing their
headcount and costs linearly with order volume, our business model wouldn't work. The 
exercise was intended to find those processes that would break at such theoretical load and
begin the work of finding where the economies of scale lay. An example was building customer
self-service mechanisms to offload the most common customer service inquiries like printing 
return labels.

I could continue on through the years, but what stands out is that I can recite these from 
memory even now, over a decade later, and so could probably everyone who worked at Amazon 
those years.

Here's a good test of how strategically aligned a company is. Walk up to anyone in the
company in the hallway and ask them if they know what their current top priority or mission 
is. Can they recite it from memory?

What Jeff understood was the power of rhetoric. Time spent coming up with the right words to
package a key concept in a memorable way was time well spent. People fret about what others 
say about them when they're not in the room, but Jeff was solving the issue of getting people 
to say what he'd say when he wasn't in the room.

It was so important to him that we even had company-wide contests to come up with the most 
memorable ways to name our annual themes. One year Jeff announced at an All Hands meeting 
that someone I knew, Barnaby Dorfman, had won the contest. Jeff said the prize was that he'd
buy something off the winner's Amazon wish list, but after pulling Barnaby's wish list up in
front of the whole company on the screen, he said he didn't think any of the items was good 
enough so instead he went over to the product page for image stabilized binoculars from Canon,
retailing for over $1000, and bought those instead.
```

Well-codified ideas need little maintenance. Jeff-relevant:

```markdown
One of the great advantages of identifying and codifying first principles is how little 
maintenance they need. Write once, remember forever. As testament to that, ever year, Bezos
ends his Letter to Shareholders the same way.

As always, I attach a copy of our original 1997 letter. It remains Day 1.
 
It's his annual mic drop. Shareholders must feel so secure with their Amazon shares. Bezos is
basically saying he figured out some enduring principles when he started his company, and 
they're so universal and stable that he doesn't have much to add some twenty years later
except to point people back at his first letter to shareholders.

Other CEO's and leaders I've encountered are gifted at this as well ("Lean in" "Yes we can" 
"Move fast and break things" "Innovation is saying no to a thousand things" "Just do it" "I 
have a dream") but I gravitate to those from Jeff because I saw them arise from distinct needs
in the moment, and not just for notoriety's sake. As such, it's a strategy applicable to more
than just philosophers and CEO's.

...

There will come a day when you'll come up with some brilliant theory or concept and want 
it to spread and stick. You want to lay claim to that idea. It's then that you'll want to
set aside some time to state it distinctively, even if you're not a gifted rhetorician. A
memorable turn of phrase need not incorporate sophisticated techniques like parataxis or 
polysyndeton. Most everyone in tech is familiar with Marc Andreessen's "software is eating
the world" and Stewart Brand's "information wants to be free." Often mere novelty is enough
to elevate the mundane. You've spent all that time cooking your idea, why not spend an 
extra few moments plating it?
```

Examples in other domains:

```markdown
Tyler Cowen named his latest book The Complacent Class. It's a really thought-provoking read,
but the alliteration in the title helps. Now economists everywhere are referring to a broad
set of phenomena by the term "complacent class." It wouldn't be nearly as memorable if called
Complacent People or The Dangers of Self-Satisfaction. Can you name the subtitle of the book?
It's "the self-defeating quest for the American Dream" but no one remembers that part.

Venkatesh Rao once wrote a memorable post about management principles encoded in the American
version of the TV show The Office. Anyone familiar with the post probably remembers it by the
first part of its title: "The Gervais Principle." Very few, I'd suspect, remember the rest of
the title—"Or The Office according to The Office"—though it does employ a clever bit of word 
repetition.

Whatever you think of Hillary Clinton as compared to Donald Trump as Presidential candidates,
I'd venture that more people can recite Trump's mantra—Make America Great Again—than Clinton's.
I don't know if she had a slogan, or if she did I don't remember what it was. Her most
memorable turn of phrase from the campaign trail was probably "then deal me in" at the end of 
a much longer phase, “if fighting for women's healthcare and paid family leave and equal pay is
playing the woman card, then deal me in." It's difficult to think of a phrase more emblematic 
of her problems in articulating what she stood for. The first part of the sentence is long and 
wonky, and I couldn't recall it from memory, and she never followed up on the second enough.

If she'd used it repeatedly in a speech, it could have been a form of epistrophe like Obama's 
"Yes we can" or Martin Luther King's "I have a dream." Imagine if she had an entire speech
where she kept hammering on what other cards she wanted to deal. "If ensuring that everyone in 
the country has an equal opportunity to reasonable healthcare is playing the [?] card then deal
me in. If ensuring everyone in this country has the right to a good education is playing the 
[?] card then deal me in." And so on. But she would only use it once in a while, or once in a 
speech, whereas Obama had entire speeches where he would circle back to "Yes we can" again and 
again. [Maybe there isn't an equivalent to "woman card" that makes this epistrophe scalable but 
the broad point about her weak use of rhetoric holds.]

That's not to say "Make American Great Again" is some slogan for the ages, but it is succinct
and has a loose bit of trochaic meter (MAKE ah-MERIC-uh GREAT a-GAIN) which grants it a sense
of emphatic energy which all political movements need. His supporters compressed it into #MAGA
which became a more liquid shorthand for social media. In general it seems the populist backlash
and the alt-right are stronger at such rhetorical tricks than the Democrats or the left, but 
perhaps it is bred of necessity from being the opposition party?
```


<a name="#Venture-capital"></a>
### Venture capital
([overview](#overview))

<a name="#Typical-route-to-becoming-VC"></a>
### Typical route to becoming VC
([overview](#overview))

From VC Jeff Bussgang of Flybridge Capital's [answer to What's the typical route to becoming a VC?](https://qr.ae/TW1ANA):

```markdown
Generally speaking, there are two on-ramps to the VC world.

One is what I’ll call “The Apprentice” model: go to a top college, get a few years of
working experience, go to a top business school, spend a few more years in a start-up
(typically in product marketing/management) and then join a firm in your late 20s/early
30s as an associate or principal and hope to be accepted as a junior partner into the 
partnership after 4-8 years. During that time, you will probably shadow a few of the
partners, join one or two boards and try to learn the trade from the experienced, senior
partners around you.

The challenge with VCs who follow this path is that the lack of deep operating experience
can potentially be viewed negatively by entrepreneurs. Some entrepreneurs ultimately 
conclude these types of VCs “don’t get it” because they’ve never walked in their shoes.
On the other hand, these “Apprentice” VCs are often very successful investors because 
they are incredibly broad in their range of expertise and analytical in their approaches
to selecting new investments.

The second on-ramp is what I’ll call the “ex-founder/MoneyMaker” model: work your way up 
the start-up ladder, become a VC-backed founder, navigate a successful exit or two and then
join one of the VC firms that backed you and with whom you’ve had a chance to build a
relationship (and make money for) over 5-10 years. This on-ramp sometimes begins with a 
“Venture Partner” title before becoming a full General Partner (i.e., the training wheels 
come off and you have your own checkbook, subject to partnership approval).

The challenge with VCs who follow this path is that they can be accused of viewing their 
VC careers as a lifestyle choice – “the back nine” – and never really go through the hard
work, long hours and long years to learn the trade. After all, this is a business where you
fund lifecycles are measured in decades. Although these types of VCs may have deep knowledge
in the particular domain where they had operating experience, they may not have the breadth
or analytical horsepower to productively invest in the fully broad range of opportunities
most general partners require to be successful. On the other hand, these “ex-founder/
MoneyMaker” VCs have great networks of former employees and business partners and an ability 
to bond with the next generation of young entrepreneurs for whom they can serve as valuable
mentors.

Which path is the more successful one? I have no idea – but I do know that numerous aspiring
VCs who can’t credibly follow one of these two paths have slim odds to entering the industry;
in a world where the odds are slim at any rate. And many LPs are looking for partnerships 
that blend the best of both sides into a single, holistic unit.
```

<a name="#Insurance"></a>
### Insurance
([overview](#overview))

<a name="#Main-function-of-insurance-sector-in-economy"></a>
### Main function of insurance sector in economy
([overview](#overview))

Allen Lobo's [answer to *Do you think insurance is really a waste of money in the long run?*](https://qr.ae/TW1Yi7) is bombastically written rhetoric as usual, so I've edited out the parts where he's flabbergasted at how stupid everyone is, and repeats himself for emphasis (unlike other writers I like, Allen's repetitions get on my nerves). 

```markdown
The primary function of the insurance sector in an economy is not your peace 
of mind.

That is certainly an important thing at the level of the individual consumer.
But it is merely a means to a far more important end.

And that end is the **liquidity of capital in the market.** Because **insurance
multiplies spending power in much the same manner as leverage.** And here’s but
a simple model of how it works.

(You’d hope that people would have learned a very painful lesson in the aftermath
of the 2008 financial crisis about what happens when capital freezes up in the 
economy. When people wondered “Why aren’t consumers and corporations spending all
that money, though they’re sitting on it!”)

...

Say you live in a colony which has a hundred families, each living in their own
house. And of the hundred houses, you know from historical experience that on 
average five of them are severely damaged each year due a combination of whatever
natural/man-made causes. Each house then takes $10,000 to repair. That’s an annual
cost of $50,000 every year. It works out to $500 per house on average per year.

Imagine now that there is no insurance of any kind and each family has to rely on 
charity at best, or just cross their fingers.

What do you think is the first thing which they will do?

**Each one will put aside $10,000 as quickly as they can (if they have any sense).**

Because while they know that there is just a 5% chance of it happening to them in 
any given year, over a twenty year period it will happen once to them (on average). 
So it makes sense to save that up.

But the rub of the deal is that they cannot spend or invest that money anymore, it
has to be kept ready at all times because nobody knows -

1. Which precise houses will be damaged each year.
2. Which houses may be damaged at higher or lower rates than average.

That is $10,000 by a hundred families each - one million dollars in capital.

**Locked down or off-limits for even any medium-term, let alone long-term 
investments.**

Oh and by the way, that’s a best-case scenario.

Remember that some of those homeowners after suffering damage the first time, will
go back to saving $10,000 again because providence does not say to them

“Okay, your house was damaged this year, you’ve had your turn.

You don’t need to worry now for the next 20 years, rest assured that misfortune will
hit only the other ones!”

You can now begin to see how terribly inefficient the system becomes in terms of 
**capital locked down purely based on the unpredictability.**

How on the one hand you will have houses that never get hit in that twenty year 
period but keep $10,000 locked up throughout and then on the other hand households
who get hit more than once in that period and then start setting aside even more 
than $10,000! In the real world, each household will actually set aside more than
$10,000 on average (to account for statistical variance in incidence of damage).

But let’s keep it simple for now to $1 million “under the mattress”.

On the other hand, if each family elects to put $500 each year into a ‘pot’ ($50,000
a year), they can rest assured that any untoward damage will be taken care of for 
the five damaged houses. That’s your “peace of mind” bit. Of course some houses will
get more than they put in (the ones who are damaged multiple times) and some may get
nothing back because they never get damaged. It’s how diversifying risk works.

But more importantly $9,500 is freed up for each family at the start of that 20-year
period and can now be put to use in whatever sense they individually need or want to,
whether that be consumption or investment.

That is effectively $950,000 dollars not extra in the system (that did not change) but
extra flowing around to be allocated to where capital can be put to productive use. 
Like I said, no amount of capital is of any use if it is frozen. 

...

Check out what happens in nations where there isn’t a robust insurance industry. How 
people at all income levels (but especially the middle class) keep as much money as 
they can ‘under the mattress’ metaphorically speaking (i.e. in cash, gold or short-
term liquid investments). That severely hobbles economic growth because there is a 
lot of capital alright but it is all ‘frozen’.

It’s not like those people are acting irrationally. No, it is that the absence of a 
advanced and sophisticated insurance sector forces them to act in a fashion which 
hurts economic growth by freezing capital.

Conversely, even though we don’t think of it as such, a system like the National 
Health Service (NHS) in the U.K. is effectively a health insurance firm. The state
says to the citizens “Pay an extra X% in tax every month and you can rest assured 
that you will be taken care of.” Same with unemployment insurance taxes in places 
like Germany.
```

This needs regulation:

```markdown
It is important not just that insurance fraud be punished severely but that insurers
who cheat their customers or misrepresent their products should be hung out to dry.
Because when people stop trusting that financial institutions will keep their 
promises, they go back to “storing money under the mattress” (as they did in the 
aftermath of 2008).Because if you buy an iPhone and Apple then tries to squirrel out
of their warranty, you can say “Screw them, I’ll buy Samsung from now on.” But if an
insurance company cheats you after you having paid those premiums for all of those 
years, it will financially wreck you!

And also why it is just as important that these institutions not be allowed to play 
around with other people’s money (unless it is that of the ultra-rich who have the
appetite and can afford high risk because that’s not money they’re depending on for
retirement).

That is also why as a man of finance, while I am hardly in favor of excessive 
regulations, it brings my blood to boil when I read of financial institutions
defrauding their customers. Whether that be outright or by soft means like cleverly
disguising the risks of financial instruments. It’s like how most policemen must
feel when they read about corrupt cops.

If the national economy were analogous to the human body, all of the other sectors 
are like individual organs. But the financial sector (retail and investment banks, 
insurance firms, mutual funds and pension funds) is the vascular system.

That is why the tech crash of 2000 stayed localized. Because the contagion was 
largely sequestered. If Amazon went bankrupt tomorrow, you’re not going to have it
rip off and take down entire chunks of the economy. But if AIG or Bank of America 
were to collapse on the other hand? It would send the markets into a complete state
of panic!
```

The answer is necessarily simplified lie-to-children style, but it does make me wonder why all the sophistication when the main function is supposed to be to gain the public's trust so they free up capital so that the market's capital is more liquid. The answer, I suppose, is profit maximization in a competitive and highly regulated industry (price differentiation too perhaps?), but I don't know much more about what the nature of the sophistication is for my speculations to be more than hot air.


<a name="#donald-trump"></a>
### Donald Trump
([overview](#overview))

From Scott Alexander's [book review](https://slatestarcodex.com/2016/03/19/book-review-the-art-of-the-deal/) of DJT's *The Art of the Deal*, written in March 2016 before he became president. 

This quote contrasts DJT with Robert Cialdini of *Influence*:

```markdown
Trump is no psychology expert, but after a few months of attributing his victories to 
blind luck, most people have accepted Scott Adams’ hypothesis that he’s really a “master
persuader”. Salon, Daily Caller, Bill Maher, and the Economist all use the word “genius”.
The less you respect Trump’s substance – and I respect it very little – the more you’re 
forced to admire whatever combination of charisma, persuasion, and showmanship he uses 
to succeed without having any.
```

DJT thinks deal-making is an innate ability:

```markdown
More than anything else, I think deal-making is an ability you’re born with. It’s in the
genes…unlike the real estate evangelists you see all over television these days, I can’t
promise you that by following the precepts I’m about to offer you’ll become a millionaire 
overnight. Unfortunately, life rarely works that way, and most people who try to get rich
quick end up going broke instead.
```

DJT's "truthful hyperbole" tactic:

```markdown
One thing I’ve learned about the press is that they’re always hungry for a good story,
and the more sensational the better. It’s in the nature of the job, and I understand that.
The point is that if you are a little different, or a little outrageous, or if you do 
things that are bold or controversial, the press is going to write about you…

The funny thing is that even a critical story, which may be hurtful personally, can be 
very valuable to your business. [When I announced my plans to build Television City to 
the press], not all of them liked the idea of the world’s tallest building. But the point
is that we got a lot of attention, and that alone creates value.

The other thing I do when I talk with reporters is to be straight. I try not to deceive 
them or to be defensive, because those are precisely the ways most people get themselves
into trouble with the press. Instead, when a reporter asks me a tough question, I try to
frame a positive answer, even if that means shifting the ground. For example, if someone 
asks me what negative effects the world’s tallest building might have on the West Side, 
I turn the tables and talk about how New Yorkers deserve the world’s tallest building, 
and what a boost it will give the city to have it again. When a reporter asks why I build
only for the rich, I note that the rich aren’t the only ones who benefit from my buildings.
I explain that I put thousands of people to work who might otherwise be collecting
unemployment, and that I add to the city’s tax base every time I build a new project. I
also point out that buildings like Trump Tower have helped spark New York’s renaissance.

The final key to the way I promote is bravado. I play to people’s fantasies. People may 
not always think big themselves, but they can still get very excited by those who do. 
That’s why a little hyperbole never hurts. People want to believe that something is the 
biggest and the greatest and the most spectacular.

I call it truthful hyperbole. It’s an innocent form of exaggeration – and a very effective
form of promotion.
```

DJT's tenth rule of deal-making is "having fun":

```markdown
I don’t kid myself. Life is very fragile, and success doesn’t change that. If anything,
success makes it more fragile. Anything can change, without warning, and that’s why I 
try not to take any of what’s happened too seriously. Money was never a big motivation 
for me, except as a way to keep score. The real excitement is playing the game. I don’t
spend a lot of time worrying about what I should have done differently, or what’s going
to happen next. If you ask me exactly what the deals I’m about to describe all add up to
in the end, I’m not sure I have a very good answer. Except that I’ve had a very good 
time making them.
```

DJT's late-career-stage plans apparently involve giving back by having skin in the game:

```markdown
What’s next? Fortunately, I don’t know the answer, because if I did, that would take all
the fun out of it. This much I do know: it won’t be more of the same.

I’ve spent the first twenty years of my working life building, accumulating, and
accomplishing things that many said could not be done. The biggest challenge I see over 
the next twenty years is to figure out some creative ways to give back some of what I’ve 
gotten.

I don’t just mean money, although that’s part of it. It’s easy to be generous when you’ve 
got a lot, and anyone who does, should be. But what I admire most are people who put
themselves directly on the line. I’ve never been terribly interested in why people give, 
because their motivation is rarely what it seems to be, and it’s almost never pure altruism. 
To me, what matters is the doing, and giving time is far more valuable than just giving 
money.

In my life, there are two things I’ve found I’m very good at: overcoming obstacles and 
motivating good people to do their best work. One of the challenges ahead is how to use 
those skills as successfully in the service of others as I’ve done, up to now, on my own 
behalf.

Don’t get me wrong. I also plan to keep making deals, big deals, and right around the clock.
```

And this is the money quote that make me create this subsection in the first place -- DJT as autistic child with special interest in real estate development:

```markdown
So much for seventeen pages of business advice. The other three hundred forty-eight
pages are Trump gushing about the minutiae all of the interesting deals he’s been a 
part of.

“GUYS, YOU’RE NOT GOING TO BELIEVE THIS, THERE WAS THIS ONE SKYSCRAPER THAT WAS SUPPOSED 
TO HAVE A FLOOR TO AREA RATIO OF 6, BUT THEN I BEAT HILTON IN NEGOTIATING THE AIR RIGHTS 
FROM THE COMPANY NEXT DOOR, AND ACTIVATED AN OPTION TO BUY A PROPERTY ON THE OTHER SIDE 
OF IT, AND ALL OF THAT LANDED ME A PARTNERSHIP WITH ONE OF THE BIG BANKS, AND THEN THE 
PLANNING BOARD TOTALLY CHANGED THE FLOOR AREA RATIO! CAN YOU BELIEVE IT, GUYS??!”

Overall the effect was that of an infodump from an autistic child with a special interest
in real estate development, which was both oddly endearing and not-so-oddly very boring.
```

combined with this -- an answer to "what do real estate developers do?" The answer being "coordination, often via blatant lies":

```markdown
I started the book with the question: what exactly do real estate developers do? They
don’t design buildings; they hire an architect for that part. They don’t construct the 
buildings; they hire a construction company for that part. They don’t manage the buildings; 
they hire a management company for that part. They’re not even the capitalist who funds the 
whole thing; they get a loan from a bank for that. So what do they do? Why don’t you or I 
take out a $100 million loan from a bank, hire a company to build a $100 million skyscraper,
and then rent it out for somewhat more than $100 million and become rich?

As best I can tell, the developer’s job is coordination. This often means *blatant lies*.
The usual process goes like this: the bank would be happy to lend you the money as long as
you have guaranteed renters. The renters would be happy to sign up as long as you show them
a design. The architect would be happy to design the building as long as you tell them what
the government’s allowing. The government would be happy to give you your permit as long as 
you have a construction company lined up. And the construction company would be happy to 
sign on with you as long as you have the money from the bank in your pocket. Or some kind
of complicated multi-step catch-22 like that. The solution – or at least Trump’s solution – 
is to tell everybody that all the other players have agreed and the deal is completely done 
except for their signature. The trick is to lie to the right people in the right order, so 
that by the time somebody checks to see whether they’ve been conned, you actually do have 
the signatures you told them that you had. The whole thing sounds very stressful.

The developer’s other job is dealing with regulations. The way Trump tells it, there are so 
many regulations on development in New York City in particular and America in general that
erecting anything larger than a folding chair requires the full resources of a multibillion
dollar company and half the law firms in Manhattan. Once the government grants approval it’s 
likely to add on new conditions when you’re halfway done building the skyscraper, insist on
bizarre provisions that gain it nothing but completely ruin your chance of making a profit,
or just stonewall you for the heck of it if you didn’t donate to the right people’s campaigns
last year. Reading about the system makes me both grateful and astonished that any structures 
have ever been erected in the United States at all, and somewhat worried that if anything
ever happens to Donald Trump and a few of his close friends, the country will lose the 
ability to legally construct artificial shelter and we will all have to go back to living in 
caves.
```

The first part reminds me of this oft-forwarded joke (via Sharon Xu):

```markdown
I told my son, “You will marry the girl I choose.”
He said, “NO!”
I told him, “She is Bill Gates’ daughter.”
He said, “OK.”
I called Bill Gates and said, “I want your daughter to marry my son.”
Bill Gates said, “NO.”
I told Bill Gates, My son is the CEO of World Bank.”
Bill Gates said, “OK.”
I called the President of World Bank and asked him to make my son the CEO.
He said, “NO.”
I told him, “My son is Bill Gates’ son-in-law.”
He said, “OK.”
This is exactly how politics works...
```

The ice-rink success story:

```markdown
Trump’s greatest pride is his ability to construct things on time and under budget. He 
gives the story of an ice rink that New York City was trying to renovate in Central Park.
After six years and $13 million, the city had completely failed to renovate it and just 
made things worse. Trump offered as a charitable gesture to do it himself, and the mayor,
who was a political enemy, refused. The press hounded the mayor, Trump eventually was 
allowed to try, and he finished it in four months for only $2.5 million. He boasted that 
he finished fixing the rink in less time than it took the city to complete their study on
why their rink-fixing project had failed.
```

Analogizing DJT to sportsplayers where you can't (aren't interested in?) changing the rules, you just do your best within them:

```markdown
He had a couple more stories like this – but throughout all of it, there was a feeling of 
something missing. Here is a guy whose job is cutting through bureaucracy, and who is 
apparently quite good at it. Yet throughout the book – and for that matter, throughout his
campaign for the nomination of a party that makes cutting bureaucracy a big part of their 
platform – he doesn’t devote a lot of energy to expressing discontent with the system. 
There is no libertarian streak to Trump – in the process of successfully navigating all of
these terrible rules, he rarely takes a step back and wonders about a better world where 
these rules don’t exist. Despite having way more ability to change the system than most 
people, he seems to regard it as a given, not worth debating. I think back to his
description of how it’s all just a big game to him. Most star basketball players are too 
busy shooting hoops to imagine whether the game might be more interesting if a three-
pointer was worth five points, or whatever. Trump seems to have the same attitude – the 
rules are there; his job is to make the best deal he can within those rules.

Maybe I’m imagining things, but I feel like this explains a lot about his presidential 
campaign. People ask him something like “How would you fix Medicare?”, and he gives some
vapid answer like “There are tremendous problems with Medicare, but I’m going to hire the
best people. I know all of the best doctors and health care executives, and we’re going 
to cut some amazing deals and have the best Medicare in the world.” And yeah, he did say
in his business tips that you should change the frame to avoid being negative to reporters.
But this isn’t a negative or a gotcha question. At some point you’d expect Trump to do his
homework and get some kind of Medicare plan or other. Instead he just goes off on the same
few tangents. This thing about hiring the best people, for example, seems almost like an 
obsession in the book. But it works for him. When somebody sues him (which seems like an 
hourly occurrence in real estate development no matter how careful you are) his response is
to find the best lawyer, hire them, and throw them at the problem. When he needs a hotel 
managed, he hires the best hotel managers and tells them to knock themselves out. Even his
much-mocked tendency to talk about all the people he knows comes from this being a big part
of his real estate strategy – one of the reasons he can outcompete other tycoons is because
he knows people on the planning board, knows people in the banks, knows people in all the 
companies he works with. It’s a huge advantage for him.

These strategies have always worked for him before, and floating off into some intellectual
ideal-system-design effort has never worked for him before. So when he says that he’s going
to solve Medicare by hiring great managers and knowing all the right people, I don’t think 
this is some vapid way of avoiding the question. I think it’s the honest output of a mind 
that works very differently from mine. I’ve been designing ideal systems of government for 
the heck of it ever since I was old enough to realize what a government was. Trump is at 
serious risk of actually taking over a government, and such design still doesn’t appeal to
him. The best he can do is say that other people are bad at governing, but he’s going to be
good at governing, on account of his deal-making skill. I think he honestly believes this. 
It makes perfect sense in real estate, where some people are good businesspeople, others are
bad businesspeople, and the goal is to game the system rather than change it. But in politics,
it’s easy to interpret as authoritarianism – “Forget about policy issues, I’m just going to
steamroll through this whole thing by being personally strong and talented.”
```

"The world is taken as a given; it contains deals" -- DJT a la narrow-but-powerful optimization process:

```markdown
I said it before, but it bears repeating – this book has a really good ghostwriter. Yeah, it
comes across as narcissistic; there’s probably no way to avoid that in a Trump autobiography.
But Donald Trump’s interest in Donald Trump pales beside his blazing hot interest in the sheer
awesomeness of hotel property deals. And part of me wants to say that people with obsessive 
interests in bizarre things are My Kind Of People.

But there’s still something alien about Trump here, even moreso than with the populist 
demagogue of the campaign trail. Trump the demagogue is attacked as anti-intellectual. I get
anti-intellectualism because – like all isms – it’s an intellectual idea, and I tend to think
in those terms. But Trump of the book is more a-intellectual, in the same way some people are
amoral or asexual. The world is taken as a given. It contains deals. Some people make the 
deals well, and they are winners. Other people make the deals poorly, and they are losers.
Trump does not need more than this. There will be no civilization of philosopher-Trumps asking
where the first deal came from, or whether a deal is a deal only by virtue of its participation
in some primordial deal beyond material existence. Trump’s world is so narrow it’s hard to fit
your head inside it, so narrow that on contact with any wider world it seems strange and 
attenuated, a broken record of deals and connections and hirings expanding to fill the space 
available.
```
